[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> The Great Pyramid, located
on the Giza Plateau in Cairo.
In 1977, engineer
and author Chris Dunn
began forming a
revolutionary, new hypothesis
that this seventh
wonder of the world
wasn't a tomb but a power plant.
Dunn's hypothesis
was that hydrogen gas
traveled from the queen's
chamber to the king's chamber.
Then the vibrations from the
subterranean chamber energized
the hydrogen atoms proposed
and created a microwave energy
beam.
But then in 1993, his
theory got an upgrade.
A German robotics engineer,
Rudolf Gantenbrink,
on contract to install
ventilation fans in the king's
chamber, sent a robot
down a very small shaft
to see what he was working with.
Suddenly, the robot stopped
and revealed a small metal door
with two pins.
Chris concluded that these
looked like electrodes.
The explanation
started to make sense
to scholars, archaeologists,
engineers, and journalists
who only seemed to connect its
existence to religious means.
>> When we look at
the Great Pyramid,
especially using Chris Dunn's
Giza power plant hypothesis
on how we see it built
like a Faraday cage,
we see the granite,
sandstone, limestone.
It's a technology.
It's a power plant.
We see these obelisks acting
like transmitters for energy,
that I believe they
were experimenting
with electromagnetic energy.
>> Electromagnetic energy?
If Chris Dunn's theory
has weight to it,
how do the obelisks that once
graced the Giza Plateau also
seem to support this theory,
the theory that ancients
were creating and
using this energy?
For that answer, we
travel 27 miles away
from the Giza
Plateau, where we find
evidence of a great
temple buried in the sand
and forgotten by time.
East of the Nile River,
in the northern region
of greater Cairo, lies
the Egyptian district
known as El Matareya.
This location was once a
region within the ancient city
of Heliopolis, one of the
oldest cities of ancient Egypt.
The only thing left
of this ancient center
is one obelisk that
stands as a placeholder
for a once-great city dedicated
to the sun and the god Ra.
An account from the time of
Ramesses III, 12th century BCE,
records that in Heliopolis,
12,963 people were employed
just at the temple of Ra alone.
What was so special about
this temple and the god Ra?
The origin of the original
temple may be unknown,
but the Greeks
called it Heliopolis
and revered its ancient
power by adopting its symbols
and worship.
Some of these symbols
we still use today.
Experts believe that this
great city might hold
the secrets of an unseen power.
Is it possible we might
glean from this fallen temple
the invisible frequency that
once graced the Giza Plateau?
Matias suggests we must
understand the meaning
of the sun and the god Ra.
>> This god was the sun, but
it was not precisely the sun
itself.
It was also the
light of the sun.
It was the vibration
that connects the soul.
In ancient times,
in Atlantean times,
we knew that
everything was mind.
And we call mind
with the sound "r."
Rrr.
The sound "r" was the
letter for the head,
was the letter for the
thoughts, the ideas.
And the letter A,
ah, was the sound
for the spirit or
the falcon, the hawk
that is in the skies, the
one that sees everything
from above.
So the sound Ra
would be the sound
that expressed the vision from
above and the thinking of god.
Ra was never a person.
He was never a god.
Sometimes, we create mistakes
in Egyptian interpretation.
Because for Egyptians,
the way they
have to share the information
was by hieroglyphics
and by icons.
What Egyptians did
was to understand
that the divine was
only one, that this
is the thought of Atlantis.
The divine is only one, like
the sun, with many rays.
So each one of the rays
has different color,
so different geometry,
so a different aspect,
potential attribute.
So all the reality that
exists is just a projection
from the light of the sun.
>> Could the potential of
the sun's energy have been
understood through the worship
of Ra or, as Andrew Collins
puts it, through the largest
university in ancient times,
a university that boasted
a resume in power?
>> Heliopolis is arguably not
only one of the oldest cities
in Egypt, but it was also
the first university.
And we know that
people would come
from all over the ancient world
to learn the Egyptian wisdom
and knowledge at Heliopolis.
And here, also, was obelisks.
And these obelisks
were used to mark time.
Not only did their shadows
tell you the time of day,
but also the length of the
shadows of those obelisks
told you what time
of year it was,
the time of the equinoxes,
the time of the solstices.
And this was all part of
this greater understanding
of Egyptian wisdom
and knowledge that
went back to the
very beginning--
the fact that here,
at Heliopolis, you
have this knowledge of calendars
and of cycles and of time.
And this, of course, was
something that influenced
the whole of ancient Egypt.
From the time of the
pyramids of Giza,
it controlled kingship, as well.
It controlled the rituals
that the kings and the queens
would do and their
calendar across the year.
And in other words, everything
began at Heliopolis.
It was seen as a
place of creation.
Even its Egyptian
name was significant.
It was Anu, which
meant the city or place
of the pillar, the place
where it all began,
the place of the original
stone of creation,
known as the Benben.
>> The four pillars to
understand the worshipping
of Ra were what we call
East, West, North, and South.
Of course, in the
North, Ra, the sun,
the one that guides everyone.
In the South, Amun
Ra, which would be
the place where we call home.
And then the Khepera, which
is the rising one, the East,
the one that is being birthed.
And the other one, Atum Ra,
which is the death and also
the invisible, so where
the light disappears.
These four pillars
are the four aspects
of light, which we
used to call "ur."
So "ur" is the physical aspect
of the consciousness, "r."
So from this aspect
of understanding,
the Egyptians created
these four different gods
that are the aspects of just
one god, which is the sun.
So these four aspects
were also treated
in the vision of Atlantis.
>> Why were these cycles
of the sun so important?
Maybe the secrets
lay in the design
of the structure of the temple
and its mysterious field
of obelisks.
>> Heliopolis was extraordinary
because it is the foundation
stone of Egyptian culture and
Egyptian priestly culture,
especially.
It started off
with an enclosure,
a rectangular
enclosure, upon which
was built a structure resembling
the mathematical reduction
of the universe.
So just that simple rectangle
was a mathematical reduction
of everything that exists
in its most simplistic form.
And then they put a perch inside
this rectangular enclosure
upon which sat the Bennu bird.
And over time, it became
a field of obelisks.
In fact, there was
one Arab chronicler
that described it as
a forest of obelisks,
because every pharaoh
that approached
that academy over the course of
time added their own signature.
>> One of the most powerful
and potent symbols of Ra is
the obelisk.
In ancient Egypt, the
pharaohs would always
seek to build one of these
massive, sometimes thousand-ton
obelisks made out
of red granite.
And they referred to them as
sun sticks or power sticks.
They could channel
the power of Ra
into the ancient
Egyptian civilization.
>> Channeling power?
Could these obelisks have
been more than a symbol of Ra,
but an actual
conductor of energy?
>> These obelisks were
connecting energetically
because they had metal in their
bases and water underneath
them.
The metal went into the water,
and the center of the obelisk
is quartz.
And all of this was like a
giant conductor of energy.
They were like a communication
transportation symbol
that the gods came
from the heavens
and that these obelisks were
pointing up to the heavens,
bringing energy back down and
sending that energy back up.
>> If this is true, how would
these pillars of granite
and quartz conduct energy?
Physicist Nassim
Haramein suggests
the ancients knew a
specific science that
can only be understood by
studying the cycles of the sun.
>> The sun itself is a
very large energy event.
The sun in our solar
system is 99.9% the mass
of our solar system.
All the planets put
together is not even 1%
the mass of the sun.
And so it's a huge energy
event that we see every day.
We're far from it, so we only
get a little bit of its energy,
but we know that that
energy can be converted
to produce very strong effects.
And so we see that in their
structures, in their temple,
they bring in the sun
in certain orientation
so that they could manipulate
the sun in certain ways
to produce what appears to
have been some energy effects.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Is it possible that the
ancients used these fields
of obelisks made of quartz
and granite to create thermal
energy that then transformed
into electrical energy?
>> And if you know anything
about shape and how it
interacts with stone, you begin
to realize that the obelisks
are actually finely-tuned
tuning forks.
Now, as you follow the
argument that every sacred site
on the face of the
Earth without exception
is built not only
on the intersecting
lines of the
Earth's energy grid,
but the stones themselves are
hard-wired in a certain way
to direct that energy in
a certain way that can now
be measured, the
obelisk themselves,
if you happen to look
at the remaining ones,
they're all
ever-so-slightly different.
>> Heat energy is all over us.
You can channel it
like the sun does.
And anything that receives
heat will start vibrating.
So what happens is
that it will start
vibrating at a molecular level.
And this vibration is
the resonant frequency.
Crystals like quartz
will do the same thing,
because these crystals
have the property
of transferring mechanical
energy to electrical energy.
This ability of shifting
from one energy to another
has an interesting feature.
This feature is that
the resonant frequency
of oscillation is very constant.
>> If these obelisks were
oscillating from the sun
and creating energy, could
the metal plates and the water
around the obelisks
create a capacitor,
a capacitor that changed
the mechanical energy
into electrical energy?
>> This oscillation is
not self-sustaining.
You have to have a
kind of storage tank,
and that's where the
capacitor comes in.
The storage tank works in
a way that you can tune it,
so you can find the
exact resonant frequency.
So the crystal and the
capacitor work together.
The capacitor is an
electric component
that stores energy
in an electric field.
When used inside a circuit, it
will provide the stored charge
once the electric
field is removed--
therefore, providing current.
>> If this is true, could the
ancients have been harnessing
this power and directing
it toward a source?
>> So when you're talking
about power distribution,
you could use cables,
metallic cables,
to extract energy or the current
from out of the capacitor
and would deliver this power
to a distant receiver or load.
Or you could use interconnected
rods, also, along the way,
and it would still
be a viable solution.
>> But has there been any
evidence of such a system?
In 1994, archaeologists
excavating the remains
of a 4,500 year old Egyptian
funerary pyramid complex
unearthed a sophisticated
copper system.
This copper pipe was
found inside the temple
closest to the pyramid, which
is called the mortuary temple.
If such pipes were used
in transferring energy,
is it possible there were
hidden tunnels or shafts that
were built to house them?
A full-scope investigation
beneath the Giza Plateau
has not been
thoroughly explored.
However, this discovery
suggests that at one time,
a system of pipes, whether
used for drainage or energy,
was used on the Giza Plateau.
Could the ancients have
been harnessing the energy
from these obelisks and
sending it to other areas?
Sonja Grace points to another
interesting connection.
>> The obelisks that surrounded
the temple for Ra were
representing not only
Ra and his great power,
but they actually were pointing
up to the heavens, to Sirius,
where he actually was
representing the sun behind
the sun.
The rituals that were
done at the temple of Ra
had everything to do
with worshipping the sun.
There were initiates
that were trained
in all of the energy work
that Ra was associated
with within the pyramids.
The pyramid has an
energetic force.
The energy goes
down into the Earth.
It takes you,
actually, to tunnels
that are underneath the pyramid
that the ancient people built.
>> For today, we
can say internet,
that it connects us all.
For them, it was like a
kind of technology that
connects us with the cosmos.
It's a different type of
technology, of course.
And it's a technology that
we inherit from Sirius.
This is why the pyramids
were built in this world.
Most of them were built
during the period of Atlantis,
around the era of Virgo
and the era of Leo,
around 15 BC to 9,000 BC.
But the structures, the
planification of how to do that
was built by the Sirian people.
>> If you followed the argument
that the entire Egyptian temple
structure was pretty
much predesigned,
there was a blueprint
already set up, well,
it turns out that when you
actually do look at the rising
of Orion's belt, if you keep
following the trajectory,
you see Sirius rising above
the horizon at the same moment.
And that matches exactly
the position of Heliopolis,
where it is today.
But that's not the
end of the story
because in the ancient
world, they always
worked in triangles.
And I always wanted
to know, where's
the other triangle,
given what we
have left of the Giza Plateau?
And it took a
little bit of time.
And it turns out that if
you go to one of the oldest
mosques in old Cairo--
and the mosques
always point to Mecca.
And the Arabs were master
mathematicians and astronomers.
They don't make mistakes.
And this one does
not point to Mecca.
It's 10 degrees off.
That's a huge error
by any standard.
And Mecca is not that
far away from Cairo.
It's pretty much
a straight shot.
And I figured, why would this
be not pointing to Mecca,
unless it's hiding
something under it?
Because that was what
was done in the old days.
So I decided to
figure out that this
may be an inclination
as to what was going on.
And it turns out that when
you put a pin on the map
at the Mosque of Ibn Tulun and
you put a pin on the center
pyramid, Giza, and the
center of Heliopolis,
it's a perfect isosceles
triangle, and I mean perfect.
>> Have we just begun to see all
the connections this one temple
seems to have to the
pyramids on the Giza Plateau?
Could otherworldly beings
have connected the temple
and the pyramids to Sirius
so that we would remember
who designed the Giza Plateau?
Or were they connecting the
great power of this temple
to the pyramids to show us
how they worked in harmony?
Chris Dunn explains that
although the pyramids
and the obelisks
are separated, they
do use the Earth as part
of an oscillating system.
>> To describe the
Giza power plant,
we go back to the source of
the energy that feeds into it.
We go to the Earth.
Energies draw through it.
And so once it's
primed, it becomes
like a coupled oscillator.
A coupled oscillator
is a device that's
attached to a larger
vibrating body.
It's in tune or harmonically
tuned to that larger vibrating
body.
And as long as the
vibrating body continues
to feed energy or vibrate,
then the coupled oscillator
will vibrate in
sympathy with it.
It will draw energy from it.
>> Could these famous obelisks
from the temple of Heliopolis
and the Great Pyramid
share the same oscillation?
>> The sun is the master
frequency transmitter
of the entire solar system.
And NASA actually did recordings
of the sound of the sun,
the actual sound of the sun.
And what NASA did is, because
you can't hear wavelengths
that long, which
are mostly in delta,
they squish the waves
so you could hear it.
And it makes this incredible
kind of throbbing,
pulsing sound which
you can actually hear.
[SUN PULSING]
Now in my years of
actually calculating
the frequencies of the Great
Pyramid as a square wave slope
tuner, I converted
the Great Pyramid
into a series of musical
notes, 10 musical notes.
And when I was mixing the
wavelengths of the four
uneven sides of
the Great Pyramid,
they're only off by one
frequency number each.
north, south, west, east
is the firing sequence
of the sequence of
the Great Pyramid.
And I played that
audibly, and I compared it
to the sound of the sun.
They were resembling
each other perfectly.
And I went, oh, my god.
>> In 2018, in "The Journal
of Applied Physics,"
scientists were able to take the
equipment to measure what was
happening inside the chambers
of the Great Pyramid in Giza,
in Egypt.
And what they found was
that inside of the three
primary chambers
in that pyramid,
there is an accumulation
of electromagnetic energy
between 200 and
600-meter wavelengths.
These are very long waves
that we're talking about.
And when they did the
imagery of the pyramid,
you can see very clearly how
that energy is concentrated
in the king's
chamber, the queen's
chamber, and the subterranean
chamber, as well.
>> Could the residue from this
great technology still vibrate
in the Great Pyramid?
And could this theory
help us understand
what the many obelisks in
the Temple of Heliopolis
were used for?
Although separated, could
the obelisks and the pyramids
act as transmitting devices,
possibly transmitting
energy or an RF frequency?
>> The shape of the pyramid and
its importance in the function
of the power plant, it
functions like an antenna.
It's like transmitters and
receivers, where you have--
is the Great Pyramid a
transmitter or a receiver?
It could be both, and the
same with other structures.
And if you have a
system like in Egypt,
where you have obelisks
in certain parts
and then you have the
pyramids in the north temples,
in the south with the obelisks,
were they communicating back
and forth through the ground?
Well, possibly.
>> On the plateau, of course,
the enormity of the Great
Pyramid is just almost
beyond our comprehension.
In fact, one of the
theories is that the pyramid
was a sort of a speaker.
It was a sonic device.
And its purpose was to
get it ringing or singing
so that it could
ultimately bathe
all of the Egyptian civilization
in a base frequency that
would effectively
in train everybody
into the same
brainwave frequency
and have everybody singing
from the same hymn sheet,
so to speak.
>> Whatever purpose this energy
was created for, it seems that
not only do the Great Pyramids
stifle our minds with wonder,
but, also, the symbol of
Ra is implanted deep within
our subconscious.
His worship and science
may have been forgotten,
but the symbol of
his great power
seems to have not left
our current society.
It's as if we try to
understand the power
by keeping the symbolism alive.
>> Ra still exists in
our contemporary mindset.
Every day, people
handle a $1 bill,
and they look on the
back, and there's
the all-seeing eye on top
of an unfinished pyramid.
That's actually called
the Eye of Providence,
and that is the eye of Ra.
The Freemasons, who
designed that as the logo
for the American
enterprise, would tell you
that that is the
all-seeing eye of Ra.
And we also see Ra in our
contemporary culture in movies,
when you look at the-- one
of the most popular movies
of all times is "Raiders
of the Lost Ark," where
Indiana Jones holds
the staff of Ra
and uses it to find the
Ark of the Covenant.
So Ra is very much
in our consciousness.
We just don't think
about it all the time.
>> What's so interesting is
that as early as the first half
of the 20th century, Sigmund
Freud realized that there was
some relationship
between this Aten disc,
the representation of
the sun, and the religion
of the earliest Israelites
and that, almost certainly,
this had come at the time
of Moses and the exodus out
of Egypt, which he believed--
and I think is possibly true--
took place around the time
of the pharaoh Akhenaten.
Freud demonstrated
in writing, the Aten
became Adon, as in Adoneinu,
one of the forms of Yahweh
or the Almighty God, and that
one of the hymns of the Aten
was so similar to one of
the psalms, Psalm 104,
that the two had to have
come from the same psalms.
So in other words,
Ra as the Aten disc
continued on as a
force, as an aspect
of the Almighty God
himself being carried
through Judeo-Christian and
also, obviously, Islamic
tradition into the modern age.
So in many ways, all of the
monotheistic religions of today
still worship the god Ra.
>> If Ra is still being
worshipped or used to represent
true power, is it possible the
symbol and power of the actual
obelisks were also adapted
into modern culture?
>> The people who took the
obelisk from Heliopolis
and placed them in other places
did so because they believed
that the power of the obelisk
would actually create kind
of a magical effect of
prosperity in their areas.
And I think that came directly
from early Egyptian belief
that these things did
help their societies.
So these are conduits,
where you can
collect the ambient
energy of the Earth
and then have that
energy actually
energize your geographic area.
>> Could the Great Pyramid and
the other pyramids on the Giza
Plateau be built to contain
and create immense amounts
of electromagnetic energy?
And could the many
obelisks connected
to the temple of Heliopolis also
be built for the same reason?
If true, might this
great symbol of Ra
have been the source
of great power,
a transmitter and receiver
of energy and communication?
Is it possible then that
the connection to Sirius
suggests a massive
infrastructure built
on the Giza Plateau was
by otherworldly beings
to create a system
that would influence
humanity through frequencies?
Since the dawn of time,
humanity has looked
upon the sun as the creator.
Its image morphed over time
to create such a power,
a power we seem to have lost.
If the everyday man
were to rediscover
the ancient knowledge and
meaning of our relationship
to the sun, maybe
one day we, too,
will understand that what
we receive from this burning
mass of energy millions of miles
away goes far beyond simply
biological nourishment.
It is something that can
be harnessed and used
to forward society.
It might just be
the invisible force
that can change the
state of the world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]